everyone likes to quote numbers off of
social media
when they indicate success when there's
a youtube video that's been uploaded
and it's got 1 million views everyone's
really here to say look at all this
success look at all this interest this
shows that the movement is growing that
we're winning that we're making progress
and nobody wants to stop and take the
time to look at
and really think about the evidence of
failure
this is the front page of the youtube
channel
for direct action everywhere and they
get
fewer views per video
than i do
everyone likes to talk about success
nobody likes to talk
about failure
the can film festival what were the most
successful films
at the cannes film festivals here what
were the least successful films
what were the films that might have been
good but went totally
ignored what were the films that failed
for a reason
and maybe we can learn something from
their failure maybe examining
the failures of the cannes film festival
is actually much more important or more
instructive or more useful and more
valuable to us
than just watching endless hype and
promotion
for the most successful films this video
is about politics this video is about
ethics this video is about organizing a
movement
right well why do i say this i'm vegan
i'm also a critic of what's going on in
the vegan movement
and one of the clarifications i have to
offer again and again is
if you are a film critic it's not
because you hate
film it's not because you want the art
form of
cinema to collapse or fail
right if you are a film critic you're
trying to help filmmakers as individuals
succeed
you're trying to make films better
you're trying to point out what's wrong
with them there's something for
all of us to learn as members of the
audience as filmmakers as directors what
have you
from film criticism if you're doing this
it's because you think
criticism itself is something important
and positive and constructive
and i don't mean to brag i don't mean to
boast
but between 2015 and 2021
can you tell me anyone else who would
even be my competition
for the most prominent the most
important
the most consistent the most incisive
critic
of the vegan movement we don't even
really have to narrow it down
to say who's been criticizing the vegan
movement from within
because i don't think we have any
meaningful incisive or important critics
on the outside either so the job the
task i took upon myself
right it's become a very lonely one i
don't think i'm bragging
i don't think i'm boasting if i say that
because i can't name even one other
person
that i can be compared to in the last
five years in the last seven years
you name it are these numbers
bad is it a bad thing
to put out an invitation for an animal
rights conference
and have only 432 people
click on the video have only 432 people
express enough interest
to watch a one minute video
inviting them to attend a conference
you're organizing
well i think you would feel these were
bad
numbers if you had donated
one million dollars if you had donated
100 000
if you had donated just ten thousand
dollars
or if you were one of the people who had
spent
years in jail because the main way
direct action everywhere claws its way
onto the front page of the newspaper
headlines is by putting their own
activists
putting their own followers behind bars
in one
illegal stunt after another nobody
asks me what i think or how i feel
about the current generation of would-be
leaders
of the vegan movement and for me those
are two very different questions
what i think about something is very
different from how i feel about it i'll
tell you this
i criticize the hell out of gary
yourofsky
i've criticized the hell out of james
aspie i've criticized the hell
out of joey carbstrong
i think all of those people each and
every one of them have seen my videos
criticizing them and in many cases i've
heard back from them
or i've heard back from them through a
friend of a friend
and so on we're a lot less than six
degrees of separation
apart right i know those criticisms
reach those people
and i hope that even in my harshest
critique of these people you can tell in
terms of how i feel about them
how i feel is not that they're bad
people
even if they are even if i think they're
bad people
even if i know that they're bad people
i'm telling you this right now
i don't feel like they're bad people i
feel
like they're people who ended up in the
wrong
job i feel like i'm looking at someone
who's a good person
who could make some kind of positive
contribution to society in some other
role
but they just ended up choosing the
wrong
career maybe gary yourofsky should have
stayed in hip-hop
he used to be a rapper did you know that
about him maybe james aspie should have
kept on working in tourism he used to
work in ski lodges and on
pleasure boats tour cruises you know
what i mean all these people i used to
even say about durianrider
if you just stuck to repairing bicycles
it wouldn't have been a problem he could
have run a bike shop and fix bicycles
but he shouldn't have done what he did
as a leader of the vegan movement
i don't really feel that i'm criticizing
bad people i feel that i'm criticizing
people
who are doing a bad job because somehow
they've
ended up responsible for the wrong
things i am not only willing
but eager to evaluate my own youtube
channel
as a failure it's not a model of success
it's a very interesting
very instructive failure but even i
can manage to get 2 800
to watch my video stating my very
provocative
very unpopular very challenging view of
aristotle's politics
so it's there are some strange little
accomplishments along the way here
and trust me if i had published my views
on aristotle as an article
even if it had been an article in a
newspaper there is no chance
2 800 people would have listened to what
i had to say
or read what it was i had to set down in
writing so
how can we evaluate the failure of
large-scale
well-funded movements like direct action
everywhere
and extinction rebellion that not only
have received
millions of dollars in donations but
that have appeared
on the front page of newspapers again
and again
that have managed to claw their way into
the headlines
primarily through illegal stunts
resulting in
mass incarceration of their followers
again
and again just to quote this headline
here more than 1 000
extinction rebellion activists taken
to court think about the cost in time
effort and yeah ultimately money
somebody's gonna have to pay for
lawyers to cope with this and think
about what could have been accomplished
in terms of filmmaking publishing
research any kind of
positive activism or even setting up a
pancake stand that gives away
free pancakes what could have been done
instead and
what ultimately was the point of this
model of disruptive
activism just to get 500 people to watch
a youtube video extinction rebellion
manages to get
77 783
views per month that is very closely
comparable
to the range of viewers i get in a
normal month
on my channel but i have never once been
on the front page of any newspaper
if you add up all the money that has
gone to this youtube channel it has
never reached one million dollars let
alone a million dollars a year
there's no comparison and i am not
asking my followers to put themselves
in prison in order to promote
my social media career peter singer
probably on the top 10 list of most
famous vegan advocates even if he is
an advocate for veganism i have many
times harshly
criticized peter singer
comes out to support extinction
rebellion and they got 70
views in the first six months
that this was online if i simply
downloaded this video
added my own snarky commentary and
criticism
and re-uploaded it to my own channel it
would get more than 70 views
in the first hour jerome flynn
a genuinely famous actor endorsing
and giving an interview to this movement
and appearing on their youtube channel
click on the thumbnail now maybe not
famous in the united states of america
but if you live in great britain or
europe you probably know who this is
george mambio oh and about as famous a
name as you could possibly get an
endorsement from
sir david attenborough i do not
mean to suggest to you that this type of
celebrity endorsement
is in any way meaningful what's
meaningful
is the depth of the failure that this
reveals
even with mass media coverage radio
interviews television interviews
magazine spreads even with celebrity
endorsements
and all the rest of it they still can't
find an audience so this is a moment for
all of us to sit down and really reflect
what can we learn from the decline
and fall of veganism in specific and
environmentalism in general
between 2015 and 2021
the successes are easy to see because
they're
everywhere celebrated i'm asking you to
take a moment and reflect
seriously on what we can learn from the
less
often admitted depth and extent
of our failure my sling is editorial
explicit material
briefcase show live and stereo flow fill
me